[modules] radiation draft (#317)
pymanga/pyMANGA: ResourceLib/AboveGround/SolarRadiation/SolarRadiation.md

# Description

> The solar radiation above-ground resource concept.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> This concept provides a above-ground resource factor calculated from the net solar radiation. Calculations are based on the FAO guidelines for computing crop water requirements [Allen et al. 1998](https://agris.fao.org/search/en/providers/122621/records/647231eb53aa8c896301eadc). The code is strongly inspired by the now deprecated python package [PyETo](https://github.com/woodcrafty/PyETo). The solar radiation used for the above-ground resources represents the difference between incoming net solar radiation and the outgoing net longwave radiation based on latitude and temperature. Further, default assumptions for albedo, altitude, and variation are made, but can also be provided as input in the project file.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This module calculates the reduction in above-ground resource availability caused by available net solar radiation. Calculations for net radiation are based on the FAO guidelines for computing crop water requirements [Allen et al. 1998](https://agris.fao.org/search/en/providers/122621/records/647231eb53aa8c896301eadc). Net solar radiation is the difference between incoming net solar radiation and the outgoing net longwave radiation and it depends on the latitude and temperature of a certain location. 

The above-ground resource factor is the ratio of actual to maximum net radiation at a given time and location. Maximum net radiation is the maximum radiation for the given location.
```

> Calculations are simplified by only needing yearly maximum and minimum temperature to reduce required user input. Results do not change significantly when using yearly temperatures compared to monthly temperatures. Each time step is then estimated from a sine curve that is fitted to the solar radiation data. By doing so, all calculations are done during the initialisation and do not require any further calculations during the simulation.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Calculations are simplified by fitting a sine function. The module only uses annual maximum and minimum temperatures, as the results do not change significantly when using annual temperatures compared to monthly temperatures.   
```

Here you can later link the notebook

# Usage 

```xml
    <resources>
        <aboveground>
            <type> SolarRadiation </type>
            <latitude> 0.65 </latitude>
            <tmin>24.33</tmin>
            <tmax>30.7</tmax>
        </aboveground>
        <belowground>
            <type> Default </type>
        </belowground>
    </resources>
```

# Attributes

* `type` (string): "SolarRadiation"

> * `latitude` (float): Latitude of the location in radians.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `latitude` (float): Latitude of the location in radians ( = degrees * PI / 180).
```

* `tmin` (float): Minimum temperature in degrees Celsius.
* `tmax` (float): Maximum temperature in degrees Celsius.
* `albedo` (float): (optional) Albedo of the surface. Default: 0.23.
* `altitude` (float): (optional) Altitude of the location in meters. Default: 0.

> * `noise` (float): (optional) Noise factor for the solar radiation. Default: Calculations explained in **Process overview** below. 

Reviewer: This is not yet explained below.
What is the unit here? Percentage?

# Value

> This factor is used to calculate the above-ground resources for the simulation. It is a float value between 0 and 1.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This factor is used to calculate the above-ground resources for the simulation. It is a float value between 0 and 1, with 1 indicating no limitations and 0 indicating full limitations..  
```

# Details 

## Purpose

This module calculates the amount of solar radiation that is available for the plants as an above-ground resource. Solar radiation is the primary energy source for plants and is used for photosynthesis and growth. The net solar radiation is converted into a factor ranging from 0 to 1.  

## Process overview

> When `SolarRadiation` is initialized, the solar radiation is calculated for the whole year. Then, at each time step, `calculateAbovegroundResources` is called and pulls the solar radiation for the respective day of the year and converts it into a factor usable by the `ResourceModel`.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When `SolarRadiation` is initialized, the solar radiation is calculated for one year. Then, at each time step, `calculateAbovegroundResources` is called and pulls the solar radiation for the respective day of the year and converts it into a factor usable by the `ResourceModel`.  
```

## Sub-processes

### calculateNetSolarRadiation

Calculates the net solar radiation based on the latitude, temperature, and altitude following the FAO guidelines for computing crop water requirements (Allen et al. 1998). This process also fits the calculated monthly solar radiation to a sine curve to estimate solar radiation for every day of the year.  

### sineFunction

Builds a basic sine function that takes time, amplitude, frequency, phase shift, and vertical shift as input parameter to return a time series that follows a sine curve. This process is used by `calculateNetSolarRadiation` to estimate solar radiation for every day of the year.  

> 

Reviewer: It would be helpful to see also how you get the factor from the radiation

## References 

> 

Reviewer: Here you can reference the package you mentioned at the top (pyeto?)
